docs: einstein for developers (#5053)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/einstein/einstein-overview.md

---
title: Einstein for Developers Overview
lang: en
---

> Einstein for Developers is an AI-powered developer tool that is available as an easy-to-install VS Code extension built using CodeGen, Salesforce’s secure, custom AI model. Use the tool to enhance developer productivity by quickly generating code suggestions using natural language instructions. The extension is available in the [VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode) and [Open VSX](https://open-vsx.org/) marketplaces.

Reviewer: Should we restructure these two sentences a bit to focus on what value we give to the user first and then what technologies the product is built on?

> Einstein for Developers assists you throughout the Salesforce development process with expertise learned from anonymized code patterns. The goal of our suite of AI-powered developer tools are to increase productivity and provide helpful assistance for complex coding tasks. We enforce development best practices with our code generation and just-in-time code completion features. AI-assisted tooling also makes it easier for new developers to onboard to the Salesforce Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Einstein for Developers assists you throughout the Salesforce development process with expertise learned from anonymized code patterns. The goal of our suite of AI-powered developer tools is to increase productivity and provide helpful assistance for complex coding tasks. We enforce development best practices with code generation and our suite of recommended static analysis and security scanning tools (Introducing Code Analyzer integration!). With boilerplate code generation to work off of, AI-assisted tooling also makes it easier for new developers to onboard to the Salesforce Platform.
```

Reviewer: We should take code autocompletion out until we ship that one - also wanted to tie in that we recommend users scan their code with Code Analyzer whenever they're working with AI-generated code. I threw it in a parentheses, pls feel free to edit!

Author: I rewrote this taking your suggestions into account.

## Current Capabilities

> This Einstein for Developers(beta) focuses on natural language to Apex code generation. This feature, used along with IntelliSense, makes Apex development tooling in Visual Studio Code even richer. Familiarity with Visual Studio Code is assumed.

Reviewer: (I'm assuming this is the case but just curious :) ) are we required to keep the `(beta)` suffix whenever we refer to the product?

Author: I got some info on this. We need to add a legal disclaimer after the title, and then we can skip the "beta" suffix. I'll make the change.

Currently, you can use the extension to:

- Generate code from natural language instructions, in a side bar. You can then copy the generated code and paste it in a file in the editor as appropriate.
- Generate code from natural language instructions within an existing Apex class, trigger, or anonymous Apex file. A new command in the VS Code Command Palette, `Einstein: Generate Code`, lets you enter in a prompt describing what you'd like to build and then generate Apex code within your editor.

> 

Reviewer: I think we should reframe this section to focus on how we currently support boilerplate code generation with natural language prompts. There's two modalities that we offer this through - one through the command palette if you'd like to do a quick generation and otherwise through the sidebar if you're looking to continue working with the tool side by side

Author: done.

At this time, you cannot use the extension to:

- Create _new_ Apex class files through natural language prompts. Apex files must already be created to trigger the command.

> - Take into account any metadata (or context) from your local project or Salesforce org. Generated code is determined by your prompt only.

Reviewer: We can remove this section and maybe replace it with a disclaimer about code generated by AI - and then it transitions into the section about trusted generative AI at SF

> This tool uses generative AI, which can produce inaccurate or harmful responses. Before using, review the output for accuracy and safety. You assume responsibility for how the outcomes of Einstein are applied to your organization.

Author: done

You can use the extension to:

- Generate boilerplate code from natural language instructions, in a side bar. Work with the tool side by side without any interruptions to your workflow.
- Get code suggestions within an existing Apex class, trigger, or anonymous Apex file. The `Einstein: Generate Code` command in the VS Code Command Palette, lets you enter in a prompt describing what you'd like to build and then generates code suggestions within your editor.

**Note**: This tool uses generative AI, which can produce inaccurate or harmful responses. Additionally, it’s important to be aware that the output generated by AI is often nondeterministic. Before using the generated output, review it for accuracy and safety. You assume responsibility for how the outcomes of Einstein are applied to your organization.

## About Trusted Generative AI at Salesforce

Salesforce’s Einstein solutions are designed, developed, and delivered based on five principles for trusted generative AI.

> 

Author: https://blog.salesforceairesearch.com/generative-ai-5-guidelines-for-responsible-development/
